= jowidgets and Eclipse RCP 4.x =

There are two examples how to use jowidgets with Eclipse RCP 4.x. They can be found here [http://code.google.com/p/jo-widgets/source/browse/#svn%2Ftrunk%2Frcp%2Fexamples Rcp4Examples]

To make it work, do the following steps:

  * Generell information how to create Eclipse 4.x model based applications and what preconditions are necessary can be found here [http://www.vogella.com/articles/EclipseRCP/article.html Vogella Eclipse RCP Tutorial]
  * Check out the example projects from [http://code.google.com/p/jo-widgets/source/browse/#svn%2Ftrunk%2Frcp%2Fexamples here]
  * Use _import existing projects ..._ to import them into eclipse
  * Set the target definition {{{org.jowidgets.examples.rcp.target}}} as target platform
  * To launch example1 use the product definition {{{org.jowidgets.examples.rcp.example1.product}}} that can be found in the project {{{org.jowidgets.examples.rcp.example1}}}
  * To launch example2 use the product definition {{{org.jowidgets.examples.rcp.example2.swt.product}}} that can be found in the project {{{org.jowidgets.examples.rcp.example2.swt}}}

== Example 1 ==

This example shows how to use jowidgets with the (default) workbench SWT renderer. Because of that, there is a dependendy to the SWT SPI implementation of jowidgets (SwtToJo). So example 1 is not ideal, if you want to make single sourcing, but it shows how to use the jowidgets api in an simple way.

== Example 2 ==

With this example i have tryed to remove the SWT dependency from the Example2Part. For that i created an own PartRenderer that was derived from the ContributedPartRenderer of the SWT Workbench Renderer. This JoToSwtPartRenderer let the created composite implement an {{{IProvider<IComposite>}}} that can be used by jowidgets. So the example part needs no dependency to SWT or to the swt renderer. The project {{{org.jowidgets.examples.rcp.example2.swt}}} has the launcher to start the model of {{{org.jowidgets.examples.rcp.example2.common}}} with SWT. For other renderers (e.g. Swing) this can be handeled in the same way.